---
title: "Xfce 4.10 released"
date: 2012-04-28
layout: "news-post"
hasToc: true
---
Today, after 1 year and 4 months of work, we are pleased to announce the release of the Xfce desktop 4.10, a new stable version that supersedes Xfce 4.8.

<!--more-->

In the 4.10 cycle we mainly focused on polishing the desktop and improving the user experience in various ways. Highlights of this release are:

- A new application finder that has been completely rewritten and combines the functionality of the old xfce4-appfinder and xfrun4.
- The panel now has an alternative vertical display mode (a deskbar). What is more, panel plugins can be arranged in multiple rows, which is particularly useful in the deskbar mode.
- A new MIME type editor that allows you to easily change applications used for opening different file types. The mouse and touchpad settings dialog and the settings editor were extended in terms of functionality. The former now supports tablets in a much better way.
- It is now possible to launch applications and open files on the desktop with a single click of the mouse. In addition, the 4.10 desktop can display thumbnails and automatically advance through the wallpaper list.
- The window manager can be configured to tile windows when dragging them to the screen edges. The tab window (Alt+Tab) supports more flexible theming and cursor key navigation.

An online tour of the changes in Xfce 4.10 can be viewed here:

<https://xfce.org/about/tour>

A detailed overview of the changes compared to Xfce 4.8 and Xfce 4.10 preview releases can be found on the following page:

<https://xfce.org/download/changelogs>

This release can be downloaded either as a set of individual packages or as a single fat tarball including all these individual versions:

<http://archive.xfce.org/xfce/4.10>

Thank you all the contributors, bug reporters, as well as translators and packagers for your efforts in making this release possible.

Best regards,<br />The Xfce development team
