---
title: "Xfce 4.10pre1 Changelog"
version: "4.10pre1"
group: "4.10"
weight: 50
hasToc: true
---

Translation updates are not shown in the lists below.

## Dependency Changes

- GTK+ dependency >= 2.20 and GLib >= 2.24.
- Libxfce4util soname changed.
- Garcon has a new libxfce4util dependency.
- Exo has a new libxfce4ui dependency.
- Libxfce4util only depends on glib (was gobject).
- Xfce-utils is not needed anymore. Functionality has been moved in xfce4-session, libxfce4ui, xfce4-appfinder or is removed.
- Xfce4-session does not (optionally) depend on xfce4-panel anymore. The plugin has been integrated with the actions xfce4-panel plugin.
- Xfce4-session does not check for consolekit, hal, upower and polkit. It has soft dependencies on consolekit and upower (communication over DBus).
- Xfce4-session does not (optionally) depend on gconf anymore.

## Development Tools *(xfce4-dev-tools)*

- Add support for LT_PREREQ (bug #6920).
- Remove spec file and rpm build target.
- Do not create a gzip tarball.
- Never use xdt-autogen in autogen.sh.
- Fix FSF address and add missing licenses.
- Only use -fstack-protector on Linux systems.
- Don't use -g3 for full debugging.
- Support xldscope for Sun Studio.
- Skip -Wredundant-decls on OpenBSD.
- Disable --as-needed on OpenBSD (bug #7546).
- Use pkg-config macro for detection (bug #7787).
- Port exo-csource to xdt-csource (bug #6449).

## Utility Library *(libxfce4util)*

- Make licenses static. You can only use xfce_get_license_text(...).
- Remove unused .h files.
- Remove xfce_strip_context(), use g_strip_context().
- Remove XfceDesktopEntry.
- Don't generate enum types.
- Only link against glib.
- Set version string to 4.10.
- Remove spec file and rpm build.
- Missing fallback for AC_RUN_IF_ELSE() when cross-compiling (bug #8166).
- Fix XfceRc group parsing with brackets in name (bug #8150).
- Reduce XfceRc structure size from from 216 to 176 bytes.
- Use some macros and drop unneeded strlen's in XfceRc.
- Use GSList in xfce-resource.
- Bump verinfo to 6:0:0.

## Widget Library *(libxfce4ui)*

- Open docs.xfce.org when Help in xfce4-about is clicked.
- Cache header icons and avoid large icons in XfceTitledDialog.
- Restore glade directory information in .pc file.
- Update translator credits.
- A lot of improvements in the shortcuts code.
- Add Alt + F1 as a shortcut for applications menu.
- Remove unused code from the internal header widget.
- Add xfce4-about from xfce-utils package.
- Use xdt-csource instead of exo-csource, depend on xdt 4.9.0.
- Update to new xfce4-appfinder commands.
- Fix build against 3.9 Glade (bug #7334).
- Add shortcuts for XF86WWW and XF86Mail.
- Simplify the xfce_gdk_screen_get_active fucntion.
- Add xfce_dialog_show_help function.

## Extension Library *(exo)*

- Drop gtk 2.24 api (bug #8461).
- Bump libxfce4ui dependency for help function.
- Send exo-open startup-id to child instead of using it (bug #7093).
- Add preferred app helper for Chromium (bug #8398).
- Remove package manuals and link to online documentation.
- Queue an icon view resize if the requesitions don't match.
- Add new API exo_icon_view_get_item_{column,row}.
- Add keynav-failed to ExoIconView.
- Show Preferred Application in settings category.
- Don't destroy already destroyed widget.
- Translation updates: Chinese, Portuguese, Lithuanian, Norwegian, German, Bulgarian.
- Do not insert symlink icons in the icon chooser.
- Use libxfce4ui instead of support library.
- Drop the python bindings.
- Use new libtool macros and versions (bug #6920).
- Remove spec file and rpm build.
- Silenty save to local application is permission denied to origional file in exo-desktop-item-edit.
- Support hexadecimal xid and center exo-desktop-item-edit on parent.

## File Manager *(thunar)*

- Fix crash when trying to thumbnail a file with unknown content type.
- Fix properties dialog crash with files with unknown content type.
- Fix crash when hovering a CD drive with a special icon (bug #7309).
- Use portable abicheck.sh from xfconf.
- Avoid segfaults due to interpreting display names as format strings.
- Improve the UI according to bugs #7496 and #7497.
- Treat backup files as hidden as with thunar-vfs (bug #7615).
- Fix crash when opening a mountable drive with no media (bug #7308) in a way that does not break SMB shares (#bug 7774).
- Fix segfaults in case icons are missing or not found (bug #7880).
- Allow exec bit of MS-DOS executables and MSI to be changed (bug #3545).
- Prevent falling back to an unexpected locale (bug #4746).
- Show translated names of desktop files (bug #7393).
- Fix sorting of filenames with large numbers (bug #5356). Patch by Eric Koegel.
- Respect ThunarIconFactory::show-thumbnails. Fixes a regression.
- Fix crash when removing an ancestor of the current folder (bug #8168).
- Fix handling %U when launching multiple files with an app (bug #7456).
- Improve sorting of file names that include numbers (bug #5359, bug #8022, #4269, #5286).
- Add a "Skip All" button to the file overwrite dialog (bug #4263).
- Compress icons and images.
- Remove the manual.
- Use 32 instead of 36 pixels for small icons.
- Show Thunar settings in category.
- Don't update UI more then fourth per second in deep count job.
- Fix sorting of applications in chooser dialog.
- Depend on Gtk 2.20 and Glib 2.24 and drop some workarounds.
- Fix removing custom application launchers again.
- Prevent looping in some renamers.
- Fix segfault when plugin returns a NULL suffix.
- Remove spec file, rpm build and update libtool.
- Lowercase the thunar executable and install a Thunar symlink.
- Make the clipboard persistence (bug #7060).
- Use glib functions for get/set cwd (bug #7522).
- Don't interpret file display names as format strings
- Paste files in correct order (bug #6504).
- Fix truncated strings when loading and storing emblems (bug #7171).
- Only erase top-level items from trash (bug #7147).
- Don't interpret file display names as format strings (bug #7128).
- Ship stock_folder-copy.png and stock_folder-move.png icons with Thunar itself (bug #6851).
- Fix segfault when calling strcasecmp with NULL parameters (bug #7206).
- Only change the Name field when renaming desktop files (bug #7155).
- Force desktop file reload after changing the Name field.
- Fix memory leak caused by not destroying the rename job.
- Allow installation of helper scripts in a custom location using the --with-helper-path-prefix=PATH configure option.
- Improve thumbnailing by avoid sending thumbnail requests while theuser is scrolling in a directory.
- Cancel thumbnail requests when leaving a directory.
- Avoid regenerating thumbnails when files are copied, moved, linked or trashed.
- Update the thumbnail cache when files are deleted permanently.

## Application Finder *(xfce4-appfinder)*

- Add Help button to preferences dialog.
- Make sure the header icon does not shrink (bug #8489).
- Set single line label for icon sizes is small (bug #8490).
- Add option to disable the background service.
- Block maximize and fullscreen in collapsed mode (bug #8491).
- Chain-up unmap.
- Start in collapsed mode if xfrun4 symlink is used.
- Select entry when Ctrl+L is pressed.
- Quit the mainloop when receiving an exit signal.
- Avoid xfconf error when closing windows on quit.
- Add icon view mode and add preferences to set icon sizes.
- Only show categories with items.
- Add keybinds to switch modes (Ctrl-1 and Ctrl-2).
- Improve reloading of items and directories.
- Add popup menu to edit, hide and revert desktop files.
- Add refcount debugging.
- Remove xfrun from the utility menu.
- Fix some segfaults.
- Add option to save custom command matches.
- Insert and reload history command in model.
- Change treeview filter prio to avoid window resize.
- Add left/right navigation to the treeviews.
- Add a custom completion match function.
- Use long option, looks better in code completion.
- Drop usage of new Gdk keycode api (bug #8044).
- Fix launching in collapsed mode.
- Don't ignore arguments of the desktop file command.
- Always allow up/down unless the completion menu is shown.
- Fix segfault when loading default actions.
- Rewrite of the the application finder to merge the functionality of the appfinder as we know it in 4.8 and xfrun4 (start with --collapsed).

## Panel *(xfce4-panel)*

- Panel: Don't destroy window when focussed and Alt+F4 is pressed (bug #7378).
- Panel: Use new help function to redirect to docs.xfce.org.
- Docs: Remove mallard documentation.
- Docs: Don't install the gtkrc README.
- Clock: Don't use sigval_t (bug #8297).
- Panel: Add support for pluggable dialogs.
- Panel: Save changed plugin ids if a plugin failed to load.
- Directorymenu: Fix prefered app not working without snotify (bug #8298).
- Launcher: Small=FALSE in deskbar mode with label visible.
- Actions: Limit size of action buttons to row size.
- Panel: Removed item size checks.
- Clock: Fixing clock orientation in vertical/deskbar mode.
- Pager: Fixing infinite loopin in the WNCK pager aspect ratio workaround.
- Pager: Fixing plugin->size updates.
- Pager: Fixed workspace ordering in the vertical mode.
- Pager: Workaround for aspect ratio error in WNCK pager in deskbar mode.
- Pager: Changing orientation depending on the panel mode.
- Clock: Changing default value of rotate-vertically to TRUE.
- Pager: Fixed preprocessor macro.
- Pager: Removing broken workaround for aspect ratio in deskbar mode.
- Pager: Making use of a fixed libwnck version (>=2.31.0).
- Revert "Use realtime POSIX timers for the clock."
- Revert "Clock: Don't use sigval_t (bug #8297)."
- Launcher: Show the desktop file in the tooltip (bug #8536).
- Panel: Make string in about translatable (bug #8545).
- Panel: Don't ask for panel when inserting items (bug #8544).
- Panel: Reply to the caller for plugin events (bug #7365).
- Applicationsmenu: Fall-back to xfdesktop for xfce4-popup-applicationsmenu (bug #7365).
- Applicationsmenu: Recurse application menu selection-done gignal (bug #8541).
- Panel: Add (un)lock option to panel menu (bug #6980).
- Panel: Add confirmation before creating launchers from dnd (bug #6926).
- Applicationsmenu: Allow non-squared icons in applications button (bug #7381).
- Panel: Save plugin-ids when removing and moving items in ed.
- Tasklist: Bringing back 4.8 max-button-size property.
- Tasklist: Capping buttons height when button labels are visible.
- Tasklist: Reverting "ceil" to "floor" (as in 4.8).
- Actions: Query visibility and save as strings.
- Panel: Add option in preferences dialog to disable struts (bug #7202).
- Showdesktop: Allow middle-click to shade windows (bug #7177).
- Panel: Add style property to control size of autohide window.
- Panel: Make compositing settings insensitive (bug #7862).
- Tasklist: Add option to disable mouse scrolling (bug #6996).
- Tasklist: Make the plugin shrink instead of expand (bug #7389, #7129).
- Drop AC_PROG_LIBTOOL and AC_DISABLE_STATIC for LT_PREREQ and LT_INIT.
- Clock: Use realtime POSIX timers for the clock.
- Actions: Merge functionality of xfce4-session plugin.
- Applicationmenu: Show menu on button-press-event (bug #8047).
- Migrate: Add version based config migration.
- Clock: Fix typo in tooltip (bug #8137).
- General: Add deskbar mode and nrows property to plugins.
- General: Add small property for plugins.
- Separator: Remove new line option.
- General: Make plugins work with deskbar mode and small property.
- Panel: Change drop highlighting to a red line.
- Applicationmenu: Reload menu on directory changes.
- Panel: Make sure the panel has a position on startup (bug #8287).
- Panel: Work with a unique id for each panel.
- Panel: Remove autosaving on exit and with timeout.
- Panel: Only save what is required and when needed.
- Docs: Update to latest version.

## Session Manager *(xfce4-session)*

- Add accelerators to logout dialog buttons (bug #6982).
- Add support for starting assistive technologies.
- Remove optional dependency for gconf.
- Remove Xfce4-tips.
- Remove early xfsettingsd autostart and add it to the session.
- Fix crash if save timeout for a client is triggered (bug #7320).
- Add a way to delete sessions (Bug #5730).
- Drop usage of G_CONST_RETURN macro.
- Add Xft.xrdb, startxfce4, xinit, xfce.desktop and xflock4 files from xfce-utils.
- Explicitly link to libm where needed (bug #7953).
- Remove the xfce4-panel logout menu plugin.
- Don't try to remove the $HOME directory (bug #8154).
- Remove manual and link to docs.xfce.org.
- Show dialog in settings category.
- Link to gmodule (bug #8340).
- Improve fadeout code with compositing enabled.
- Start screensaver with autostart.
- Support the TryExec key for autostart in the settings dialog.
- Rework the logout dialog code.
- Cleanup the power management code.
- Let xfce4-session handle the dbus-launch checking.
- Add support for launching xfce4-session in consolekit.
- Add --with-ck-launch support to startxfce4.
- Add option to lock the screen on suspend/hibernate.
- Remove unused icons.
- Show all applications in autostart (bug #8014).
- Drop gpg-agent and ssh-agent handling.

## Settings Manager *(xfce4-settings)*

- Xfsettingsd: Don't set large dpi in xrdb (bug #8415).
- Include xscreensaver in the manager dialog.
- Complete theme installation script.
- Settings editor: Set sensitivity of save button on init.
- Xfsettingsd: Properly round display refresh rate to find match.
- Add mime icons in the mime-editor treeview.
- Store window and column sizes in xfconf.
- Add cateogry based settings manager.
- Re-add support for pluggable dialogs and enable them always.
- Rework settings editor.
- Clear out keyboard shortcuts before resetting to defaults (bug #8138).
- Use daemon() for xfsettingsd if available.
- Hide the xfconfd-already running message completely.
- Excluded items with NoDisplay=true in the settings dialog.
- Remove duplicated accelerators (bug #7734).
- Add theme dnd-installation by dropping in a treeview.
- Drop AC_LIBTOOL in favor of LT_PREREQ and LT_INIT.
- Wait for the window manager before setting workspace names.
- Add option to disable numlock restoring (bug #8302).
- Add Help button and make existing buttons work with wiki.
- Add new MIME Type editor.
- Depend on Gtk+ 2.20 and Glib 2.24.
- Merge xfce4-settings-helper into xfsettingsd.
- Add support to xfsettingsd for pointing device properties.
- Rework the mouse dialog and add support for basic synaptics and wacom settings.
- Add option to enable assistive technologies during login.
- Add fontconfig monitoring (bug #5011).
- Improved debugging with XFSETTINGSD_DEBUG=1.

## Configuration Manager *(xfconf)*

- Use sh as interpreter in tests.
- Add hook to skip the xfconf tests.
- Make the abicheck work on Solaris and PPC64 (bug #7416).
- Fix licenses and use new FSF address.
- Fix compiler warnings on Solaris.
- Avoid GCC 4.6 compiler warning.
- Add toggle option to xfconf-query.
- Remove unusable import and export options from xfconf-query.
- Translate all error strings in xfconf-query.
- Cleanup Makefile.am files a bit.
- Improve --version output in xfconf-query.
- Cleanup #includes.
- Drop usage of the G_CONST_RETURN macro.

## Desktop Manager *(xfdesktop)*

- Fix menu without desktop icons.
- Enable pseudo-transparent backgrounds again.
- Prevent multiple instances of xfdesktop from running (bug #8488).
- Change xfdesktop's menu icon to "applications-other" (bug #8500).
- Keep the image width to something sensible for xfdesktop-settings (bug #7086).
- Use the preferred file manager when opening folders (bug #6537).
- Drop AC_PROG_LIBTOOL for LT_PREREQ and LT_INIT.
- Remove docs and link to wiki.
- Thumbnail desktop icon previews using tumblerd.
- Added a check for GDK_GRAB_INVALID_TIME in xfdesktop_popup_grab_available to mitigate slow menu popups on a right mouse click (bug #7172).
- Add the code required to perform a paste on the on the desktop (bug #3804).
- Display correct trash icon on menu and desktop.
- Fix for shift + drag selections/
- Icon positions are saved/restored per resolution.
- Backdrop image cycling on a timer.
- Modified xfdesktop_icon_view_drag_drop to allow all selected files to drag and drop (bug #5025).
- Fix for moving files instead of copy when src isn't writable.
- Fix typos in the README file.
- Unmounted volumes are semi-transparent.
- Stretch background across all monitors setting (bug #5690).
- Arrange icons on the desktop menu item (bug #2833).
- Single click option to open items on desktop (bug #1797).
- Require libexo and update min requirements in readme.
- Comments in .desktop files are displayed in the tooltip (bug #8509).

## Window Manager *(xfwm4)*

- Add tiling feature (bug #6648).
- Navigate with arrows in task switcher (bug #4752).
- Show dialogs in settings category.
- Do not cancel pending focus transition and use actual meaningful timestamp to avoid setting focus on wrong window in focus follow mouse (Bug #8323).
- Remove docbook documentation.
- Remove older themes from main package (moved to xfwm4-themes now).
- Add patch for themeable tab-window (bug #8238).
- Use themeable icons for the settings manager and the menu, rework the default icons for the settings manager and the window menu and add SVG version.
- Reintroduce the double-click timeout.
- Drop AC_PROG_LIBTOOL in favor of LT_PREREQ and LT_INIT.
- Simply double click detection logic.
- Add special icons for the button layout in settings.
- Remove some XFlush() calls.
- Upon restart, restore the previous selected workspace.
- Improve horizontal/vertical maximization toggle so that de-maximizing in either direction while fully maximized gives the expected maximization result.
- Change the default theme to differentiate from 4.8.
- Update mouse cursor theme and size dynamically (bug #6854).
- Optimize transients for group evaluation while withdrawing windows.
- Increase timeout for other WM to exit with "--replace",
- Rework focus and fullscreen windows to make xfwm4 simpler and more predictable.
- Get rid of old GNOME 1.x protocol.
- Get rid of legacy fullscreen emulation.

## Theme Engine *(gtk-xfce-engine)*

- Improved menu theming
- Theme gtk-tooltip (bug #8494).
- Scale radio and check boxes (bug #8456).
- Draw inset border around default button (bug #8454).
- Changed rendering of GtkSpinButton.
- Pixel align checkboxes in the Gtk+-3.0 engine.
- Link against libm (bug #6253).
- Added Gtk+-3.0 theming engine.
- Changed drawing routines to use cairo.
