---
title: "Xfce 4.2.1 Changelog"
version: "4.2.1"
group: "4.2"
weight: 10
hasToc: true
---

## General

- Don't use `G_INLINE_FUNC` in the source code, which fixes several weird build errors.

## Libraries *(lib\*)*

- Libxfce4util: Fix a problem with NFS mounted home directories in Solaris (bug #724)

## Window Manager *(xfwm4)*

- Speed improvement with GLX applications
- Fix Alt-Tab not focusing a window alone on a desktop (bug #700)
- Kbd shortcuts don't work when caps lock is enabled (bug #689)
- Window not showing when compositor is enabled (bug #694)
- Documentation on command line option to enable/disable xfwm4 compositor (bug #611)
- Improve caching of frame elements
- Fix default theme for dark gtk themes (such as Xfce-dusk)
- Various focusing issues fixed
- Optimizations of move/resize operations (bug #761)
- Auto maximize windows larger that screen size.
- Be more tolerant with apps manipulating frameless windows.
- Focus window on top of stack on workspace switch if no other window is eligible for focus.
- Fix uninitialized default layer for fullscreen legacy apps.
- Updated translations : he, ja, pt_br, zh_CN, fi, lt, ko

## Desktop Manager *(xfdesktop)*

- Fix handling of quoted commands in the desktop menu (bug #776)
- Fix handling of .desktop files with no Categories list (bug #776)
- Add "edit menu" button to panel plugin prefs (bug #554), and ability to change the button tooltip (bug #764)
- Fix broken panel plugin behavior when trying to track the default desktop menu. there's a new option to either follow the default menu, or use a static menu file (bug #778)
- Fix bug where xfdesktop would crash if the windowlist was opened, then a window was destroyed, and then that window was selected from the list (bug #672)
- Fix "unique" attribute of system menu inclusion

## Panel *(xfce4-panel)*

- Save configuration file only on exit
- Fix double click on inactive item in dialog (bug #739)
- 64bit fix
- Clock applet tweak (bug #716, hopefully)

## Settings Manager *(xfce-mcs-manager)*

- Fix RedHat shutdown code (bug #703)

## File Manager *(xffm)*

- Ensure posix.1-1996 compatibility (bug #695)
- Fix for crash on opening fstab on solaris (bug #726)
- Avoid a showstopper gtk-2.4 bug (scaling gdkpixbufs from svg images). This is bugzilla bug #751 report. Not all gtk showstopper bugs from svg can be avoided. In particular with office/mobile_phone_01.svg. This file will also crash rox
- Allow relative paths for icon resolution (xfce4-modules)
- Validate utf error messages (bug #737)
- Don't quote paths that are already quoted.
- Change smb-share icon to proper icon
- Fix borked overwrite warning dialog message
- Bug fixes for keyboardnavigation to close bug #795
- Separate remove and paste button in toolbar to avoid confusing the remove confirmation dialog with the overwrite confirmation dialog
- Fix translation problems in several languages, including brazilian-portuguese
- Fill in some missing spanish translation strings
- Fix for bug #524 (crashing xffm by mounting cdrom and trying to open it in the other treeview before mount is complete)

## Printing Helper *(xfprint)*

- Remove FILE backend and add a print-to-file entry in the printing dialog
- Multiple bugfixes (bug #816, bug #817, bug #818, bug #820) in the BSD-LPR backend (thanks to Jason Keltz for pointing them out)

## GTK theme engine *(gtk-xfce-engine-2)*

- Add new dark theme "Xfce-dusk" contributed by James Golden
- Improve default theme, enhance contrasts.
- Rework progress bar drawing.

## Calendar and Appointments *(xfcalendar)*

- Remembering of its position (bug #691 and bug #789)
- Warning box for preventing users to loose their changes (bug #714 and bug #738)
- Possibility to show/hide xfcalendar in taskbar, pager and systray (bug #719)
- possibility to choose to either show or hide the calendar window when xfcalendar is launched (it remembered before the status when leaving)
