---
title: "Xfce 4.4 rc 1 (4.3.99.1) Changelog"
version: "4.3.99.1"
group: "4.4"
weight: 20
hasToc: true
---

## Utility Library *(libxfce4util)*

- Enable compilation with compilers other than gcc (bug #1851).
- Updated translations: Fabian Nowak (de).
- New translations: Leandro Regueiro (gl), Dimitri Gogelia (ka).

## Widget Library *(libxfcegui4)*

- Use the slice allocator where appropriate and `g_type_class_add_private()` (bug #2087).
- Add delay for switching workspace when dragging something over the pager (bug #838).
- Allow to use flag buttons for the tasklist.

## Extension Library *(exo)*

- See the release notes at <http://thunar.xfce.org/news.html>.

## Settings Manager Plugins *(xfce-mcs-plugins)*

- Use `GtkComboBox` instead of `GtkOptionMenu` in the user interface settings (bug #2134).
- Subpixel rendering options are now independent of the hinting options (bug #665).

## Window Manager *(xfwm4)*

- Implement borderless full maximization (bug #1750).
- Rework maximization switches (bug #2047).
- Unmap the client window when shaded (bug #2168).
- Fix a crash in compositor when the client vanishes (bug #2105).
- Make sure the icon selected in the tabwin matches the selected window in all cases (bug #2008).
- Add `<Xutil.h>` include for building on Solaris.
- Add new option to enable/disable unredirection of fullscreen override windows (overlays).
- Prevent shaped windows to request a frame.
- Fix meaning of the Xfwm/CycleMinimum option in the WM tweak plugin (bug #2058).
- Fix focus transition back to regular window when an override window grabbing keyboard is unmapped (bug #2090).
- Allow pkg-config to be more verbose (bug #2178).
- Add a fallback to the configure script to check for libXrender on Solaris 10 (bug #2165).
- Plug a few memory leaks.
- Reduce Xserver's memory usage my disabling frame caching.
- Fix bogus high CPU usage on loading themes that miss the menu button.

## Desktop Manager *(xfdesktop)*

- Fix backdrop image tearing during expose (bug #1944).
- Show icon tooltips where appropriate (bug #1526).
- Use thunarx extensions for the icon context menus and properties dialogs.
- Fix ugly gradients in the desktop wallpaper on 16-bit displays (bug #1819).
- Don't show a folder for the desktop directory itself (bug #1916).
- Fix problems with markup in text labels (bug #2082).
- Add 'File System', 'Home', and 'Trash' icons.
- Fix compositing emblems on icons (bug #1875).
- Use native Pango ellipsising support for the windowlist menu, which looks way better (bug #2127).
- Allow panel plugin's menu to be opened at the pointer position (bug #2103).
- Don't allow cut or delete if the file/dir isn't writeable (bug #2081).
- Memory leak fixes (bug #1910).
- Put the icon context menu on the proper screen (bug #2351).

## Panel *(xfce4-panel)*

- Fix/reimplement kiosk mode (bug #1993).
- Fix linking with -Wl,--as-needed (bug #1977).
- Reduce number of polls/timeouts.
- Prevent panel from being closed by Alt-F4 (bug #2116).
- Use g_slice_\* functions from glib when available.
- Add search filter to 'Add item' dialog.
- Add dummy (empty) scripts for deprecated xftaskbar4 and xfce4-iconbox.
- Make desktop switching by scrolling over the pager optional (bug #1951).
- Use pango_ellipsize in windowlist and highlight active window.
- Flat buttons in taskbar by default (old behavior can still be selected).
- Prevent panel (item) dialogs from being always on top.
- Add xfce4-popup-windowlist program to allow showing the windowlist from a keyboard shortcut (bug #2104).
- Optionally show apps from all desktops iconbox.

## Print Frontend *(xfprint)*

- Prevent xfprint4 from removing the printed file when the filters aren't applied.
- Fix incompatibility with CUPS 1.2 (bug #2107).

## Session Manager *(xfce4-session)*

- Add support for HAL to shutdown/reboot the computer. Must be enabled explicitly using `--with-shutdown-style=hal` to configure (bug #2046).
- Do not try to save the `xfce4-tips` as part of the session (bug #1089).
- Add shutdown/reboot support for Solaris (bug #2230).
- Drop libgnome dependency for assistive technologies support.

## Terminal Emulator *(Terminal)*

- Parse `file:`-URIs dropped to a Terminal window properly and format them so they can be used in shell commands directly (bug #2076).
- Use the thumbnail preview support for the background image selection that was added with exo 0.3.1.10rc1 (bug #2069).
- Add `'~'` to the default word chars.

## File Manager *(Thunar)*

- See the release notes at <http://thunar.xfce.org/news.html>.

## Calendar *(orage)*

- Fixed jumping effect on panel plugin by adding possibility to define plugin size (bug #2101).
- Fixed slow month update (bug #2080).
- Fixed race condition in timezone handling causing wrong days being highlighted (bug #2157).
- Fixed several AMD64 pointer handling issues (Bugs bug #1900).
- Fixed utf8 problem with strftime n panel plugin (bug #2208).
- Panel plugin parameter window uses tables and is prettier.
- Corrected timezone parameter handling causing corrupions.
- Set alarm window to be on top.
- Use static icons with all windows except systray and about.
- Disable choices that do not make sense in appointment window.
- Possibility to make more complex repeating alarms like weekdays and every nth type settings.
- Trayicon has tooltip, which shows list of alarms.
- Long repeating sounds do not overlap, but wait and start only after the previous play has ended.

## Archive Manager *(xarchiver)*

- Added symbolic link column in `tar/tar.bz2/tar.gz` and RPM archives.
- Ability to extract files inside RPM archives without the directory they are contained in.
- View ability works now with files inside RPM archives nested in more than one directory.
- Increased speed! Xarchiver is faster than ever when opening archives.
- The GUI looks neat and clean respect to the 0.3.3 release.
- Added a brand extract and add dialog supporting most of the archiver command line options.
- Added drag and drop from and to Xarchiver window by using the XDS protocol.
- Added the (in)famous cmd-line switches; see xarchiver `-?` for details.
- Added a Stop button who cancels the current operation or you can use the ESC key.
- Added ability to test archives.
- Added an archive properties window showing useful info about the archive and its content.
- Added two menu entries in the Action menu to select or unselect the files in the treeview.
- Added support for ISO images (opening, extract and view only) but it's incomplete, see the `TODO` file.
- Row selection while you type ability. Useful when you have thousand of files inside the archive.
- The extract dialog now remembers the last used extraction path.
- The extract dialog automatically sets the destination directory as the archive path.
- The enter key can be also used with the extract dialog.
- You can use accelerators (keyboard shortcuts) for almost the menu entries.
- The Del key can also be used instead of the Delete button on the toolbar.
- Removed the confirmation dialog when opening bzip2 and gzip compressed files.
- Added a confirmation dialog when deleting files from the archive.
- Finally fixed bug randomly causing rar and arj output badly appears.
- Finally fixed bug randomly causing tar.bz2 and tar.gz archives to be corrupted when deleting files from them.
- Fixed some memory leaks but surely someone is left.
- Fixed bug causing filenames with spaces inside the archive not being viewed.
- Fixed bug causing filenames with spaces in arj archives appear truncated in Xarchiver window.
- Fixed a bug preventing the file dialog to select more than one file when adding to arj archives.
- Fixed progress bar not appearing when adding only one big file to an archive.
- Fixed a bug causing Xarchiver to hang when opening empty zip archives.
- Fixed a bug causing Xarchiver to exit when opening a not supported archive directly from the command line.
