---
title: "Xfce 4.4.1 Changelog"
version: "4.4.1"
group: "4.4"
weight: 20
hasToc: true
---

## Utilities Library *(libxfce4util)*

- Fix invalid g_slice_free1() in XfceRc code (bug #2854).
- Fix bug when deleting groups.
- Do not use GMemChunk for XfceRc module as that leaks all of its memory starting with GLib 2.10 (bug #2427).

## Widget Library *(libxfcegui4)*

- Change 2 GPL headers to LGPL.
- Test for support of -Wall, -Werror and -errwarn=%all (bug #2918).
- Fix aspect ratio of the pager when using viewports, required for window managers such as Beryl that use multiple viewports within one single workspace.
- Many translation updates.

## Window Manager *(xfwm4)*

- Treat dialogs and utility windows as transients for group (bug #3102).
- Add support for shape input with XShape extension 1.1 (bug #3092).
- Make the title button in the xfwm4 settings manager dragable (bug #3000).
- Fix a misinterpretation of ICCCM about when to send a synthetic configureNotify event (bug #2977).
- Add new hidden option to instruct xfwm4 not to bring window back on current workspace when activated (bug #2961).
- Place splash screen windows on the normal layer, so that dialogs that get mapped during startup have a chance to be placed above the splash screen.
- Raise focused window on workspace switch (bug #2960).
- Sort Z-order on workspace change (bug #2960).
- Fix the small lag before icon update at first map and when updating all frames at once.
- Use timeout for frame redraw, check actual WM name changes to work around apps that falsely update their WM name property (bug #2810).
- Updated translations: Hungaria, Catalan, Italian, Polish, German, Japanese, Turkish, Ukrainian, Dutch, Chinese (simplified) and French.
- New translations: Albanian (Besnik Bleta), English (Jeff Bailes).

## Desktop Manager *(xfdesktop)*

- Fix entries in the menu.xml files that should not have been translated.
- Add support for menu file as argument (bug #2876).
- Remove use of __FUNCTION__ as it breaks sun's compiler (bug #2924).
- Blurry rendering of unscaled backgrounds (bug #2939).
- Fix uri parsing to unescape '%##' stuff in the uri (bug #2942).
- Many translation updates.

## Panel *(xfce4-panel)*

- Completely hide the right-click menu when kiosk mode is enabled (bug #2984).
- Show the system tray border in the default layout and increase the top panel size to 30px, so users can actually see the system tray.
- Allow freely movable panels on the screen edges (bug #3039).
- Improve the icon size of the actions plugin and add an option to change the orientation of the buttons (bug #2999).
- Unhide when dragging over the panel (bug #2914).
- Check for NULL pointers in DBG messages to prevent crashes on Solaris, based on patch from William Bonnet (bug #2922).
- Add some checks for valid tree selection (bug #2933).
- Many translation updates.

## Settings Manager *(xfce-mcs-manager)*

- Test for support of -Wall, -Werror and -errwarn=%all. (bug #2918).
- Many translation updates.

## Settings Manager Plugins *(xfce-mcs-plugins)*

- Test for support of -Wall, -Werror and -errwarn=%all. (bug #2919).
- Add default shortcuts for volume control using aumix.
- Do not include theme without directory or hidden in the icon theme list (bug #2912).
- Many translation updates.

## Text Editor *(mousepad)*

- Test for support of -Wall, -Werror and -errwarn=%all. (bug #2921).

## Printing Helper *(xfprint)*

- Many translation updates.

## Development Tools *(xfce4-dev-tools)*

- Add script for generating commit messages from ChangeLogs on the fly (xdt-commit).

## Utilities *(xfce-utils)*

- Update the AUTHORS file.
- Fix syntax error in startxfce script (bug #3089).
- Fix insecure use of temporary file in startup script.
- Put /usr/local/share first (bug #2967).
- Fix an issue with the syntax in startxfce4 script (bug #2967).
- Many translation updates.

## Volume Control *(xfce4-mixer)*

- Follow the HIG specifications on the buttons.
- Add test_vc to Makefile.am.
- Many translation updates.

## Calendar and Appointments *(xfcalendar)*

- Bug when adding All day event from iCal. All day events were handled wrongly in Orage (bug #3058).
- Recurring events need to happen on ending date also (bug #2937).
- Erroneous warning when adding panel plugin (bug #2863).
- Change field before save so that spin buttons activate always (bug #2811).
- Many translation updates.

## Application Finder *(xfce4-appfinder)*

- Many translation updates.
