---
title: "Xfce 4.4.3 Changelog"
version: "4.4.3"
group: "4.4"
weight: 20
hasToc: true
---

## Panel *(xfce4-panel)*

- Quite a bit code changed in the dnd code. Mostly to fix a segfault in FreeBSD-amd64, but more problems were discovered and a lot of code was simplified.
- Don't respond the uri drags, we don't use it and it only causes problems like hiding the panel when a file was dragged over the panel (bug #3815).
- Fix crash with xrandr 1.2 (bug #3620)

## Desktop Manager *(xfdesktop)*

- Make menu panel plugin honor CustomizeDesktopMenu kiosk setting (bug #1026).
- Fix incorrect initial desktop font size when setting custom font size if a custom font was never set before (bug #3957).

## Window Manager *(xfwm4)*

- Fix automaximize on move
- Remove trailing \0 in UTF-8 strings, that causes libwnck to rightfully complain that NET_WM_NAME contains invalid UTF-8
- Exit on SelectionClear event so that xfwm4 exits even with WM who do not send a ClientMessage event such as Openbox (bug #2374)
- Backport overlay and compositor support from trunk (bug #3849)
- Filter out grab/ungrab events so we don't end up redrawing the frame twice
- Set monitor when positionning menu (bug #4162)
- Reduce flickering during resize (bug #4283)
- Fix NET_WM_STATE claiming maximization vertical and horizontal even if only horizontal of vertical is actually set (Should fix bug #3969)
- Loosen the rule that prevents an application from iconifying itself when skip_taskbar is set (bug #4434)
- Rework visual depth selection of the frame window (bug #4452)
- Add support for NET_MOVERESIZE_WINDOW
- Take gravity bit into account in configure resize only requests to comply with standard (bug #3634)
- Add client windows to save set to avoid loosing all windows in case of crash
- Use guint32 instead of Time internally to avoid potential issues in 64bits
- Add a "--replace" command line option to replace ICCCM2 compliant window managers (bug #3731)

## Widget Library *(libxfcegui4)*

- Fix format-string vulnerability in dialog code

## Terminal emulator *(Terminal)*

- Update to latest trunk translations.

## File manager *(Thunar)*

- Update to latest trunk translations.

## Text editor *(mousepad)*

- Sort recent items by most recently used.

## Utilities *(xfce-utils)*

- Fix missing translated chars (bug #3543)

## Updated translations

- Basque
- Brazilian Portuguese
- Catalan
- Chinese Traditional
- Danish
- Estonian
- Finnish
- French
- Galician
- German
- Indonesian
- Japanese
- Korean
- Kurdish
- Latvian
- Norwegian
- Polish
- Sinhala
- Slovak
- Slovene
- Spanish
- Turkish
- Urdu
