---
title: "Xfce 4.6 BETA 2 (4.5.92) Changelog"
version: "4.5.92"
group: "4.6"
weight: 30
hasToc: true
---

## Development tools *(xfce4-dev-tools)*

- Add support for git (and git-svn) to the xdt-commit script (bug #4491) ?>).

## Utility Library *(libxfce4util)*

- Increment library version to avoid having a 4.6 library version older then the one in 4.4.
- Place G_GNUC_INTERNAL before function declaration for Sun Studio compatibility (bug #4580) ?>).
- Updated translations: Jari Rahkonen (fi), Abel Martin (es)

## Widget Library *(libxfcegui4)*

- add libxfce4kbd for keyboard-shortcut support
- Fix format-string vulnerabilities in 'message_dialog' and 'xfce_confirm'
- Improve SessionManagement support
- Update translations (de, es, pt_BR, eu, ku, cs, id, fi, sq, nb_NO)

## Extension Library *(exo)*

- Make Preferred Applications dialog pluggable into the new settings manager.

## Menu Library *(libxfce4menu)*

- Updated translations: ca, da, ku, nb_NO, sq, tr.

## Window Manager *(xfwm4)*

- Add support for restart style SmRestartImmediately.
- Add support for NET_MOVERESIZE_WINDOW.
- Add client windows to save set to avoid loosing all windows in case of crash.
- Rework the window menu to improve consistency with libwnck menu (bug #4531) ?>).
- Simplify management of transients.
- Add support for keyboard shortcuts (bug #4492) ?>).
- Add new option do disable blinking of urgent windows.
- Fix possible crash when the dbl_click_action setting gets unset.
- Fix workspaces names not being set in the workspace settings GUI.
- Do not display warnings for values that are not configurable via xfconf (typically theme settings).
- Draw focus in tabwin to make sure the selection is visible even with themes that do not show selected items.
- Add key shortcut for reverse cycling (bug #2778) ?>)

## Desktop Manager *(xfdesktop)*

- Display 'Audio' and 'Video' categories in the multimedia submenu.
- Fix multiple image selection in settings dialog file chooser (bug #4522) ?>).

## Panel *(xfce4-panel)*

- Remove signal disconnect left after the patch of bug #4474.
- Fix xrandr problem so it's possible to change the panel's monitor after a monitor has been removed (bug #3620) ?>).
- Panel does not adhere to 'fullwidth' property when using vertical orientation after restarting (bug #4456) ?>).
- Implement SmRestartImmediately (bug #4516) ?>).
- Reverse the order of the launcher menu when the panel is on the top of the screen (bug #4450) ?>).
- Don't spawn zombies (bug #4490) ?>).
- Quote commands in the launcher when selecting an application (bug #4507 and #4549).
- Restore panel workspace names after panel restart (bug #4589) ?>).
- Update the tooltip of the clock when it is visible.

## Session Manager *(xfce4-session)*

- Hook up Help button in settings dialog.
- Implement support for the RestartImmediately restart style hint.
- Fix possible crash with uninitialised GError (bug #4202) ?>).
- Link libxfsm against all required libs to avoid link-time errors (bug #4429) ?>).
- Make splash engines store their settings in Xfconf.
- Handle the ProcessID SM property properly.
- Add a session editor to the settings dialog.
- Fix compilation on some Linux systems with a broken linux/ioprio.h header (bug #4515).
- Fix a possible crash on amd64 (bug #4510) ?>).
- Add support for suspend and hibernate via HAL. Initial patch from Michael Casadevall (bug #2672) ?>).
- When restoring clients on startup, be sure to set their current working directory if the cwd was set as a part of their saved state.
- Add SaveSession kiosk capability (bug #2998) ?>).
- When a client requests interaction, don't continue to kill all other clients while it's still interacting. And then don't ignore it when it wants to cancel shutdown. Also fixes a similar problem when interaction is requested during a phase 2 save-yourself (bug #4284) ?>).

## Settings Manager *(xfce4-settings)*

- Add an option to disable keyboard settings.
- Default to "Rodent" icon theme instead of "hicolor" (bug #4545)
- Use XfcePosixSignalHandler in xfce4-settings-helper to handle signals, since calling gtk_main_quit() from a signal handler may not be safe.
- Make xfce4-settings-helper connect to the session manager and use the SmRestartImmediately facility to make sure it keeps running. Disable the autostart .desktop file if we were restored from a saved session. Attempt to acquire an X selection on startup to ensure multiple copies of the helper aren't running (bug #4577) ?>).

## Configuration Manager *(xfconf)*

- Add xfconf_channel_new_with_property_base() to restrict a channel to a subset of the property tree.
- Add a dbus message filter to xfconfd that catches dbus daemon disconnect signals and flushes channels before xfconfd gets killed (bug #4487) ?>).
- Change libxfconf GObject bindings API slightly to use gulong IDs for each binding to be used when removing bindings. Extend the unbind functions a bit.
- Bump libxfconf interface version due to incompatible change.
- Add libxfconf perl bindings.
- Remove xfconf_channel_remove_property() and xfconf_channel_remove_properties().
- Only treat the XML file under $XDG_CONFIG_HOME as a "user" file, and treat all others as system files. This fixes the problem where Xfce-installed defaults get read \*after\* the user's config when Xfce is installed to a user-writable prefix (bug #4592) ?>).
- Fix build on Cygwin and other platforms that actually care about library link order (bug #4559) ?>).

## File Manager *(thunar)*

- Fix build on MacOS X (bug #4433).
- Don't create Thunar -> thunar symlink on case-insensitive filesystems (bug #4430) ?>).
- Add thunar-wallpaper-plugin for setting the wallpaper on xfdesktop >= 4.5.90

## Mixer *(xfce4-mixer)*

- Use xfconf_channel_reset_property() instead xfconf_channel_remove_property().
- Rename stock icons and install them as application icons to $(pkgdatadir)/icons/hicolor. Remove stock code.
- Change step and page increment size of the panel plugin to 1%.
- Fix license headers to use GPL everywhere.
- Use "multimedia-volume-control" icon in the desktop entry.
- Fix build with GStreamer < 0.10.14.
- Translation updates: Carles Muños Gorriz (ca), Abel Martín (es), Csécsey Károly (hu). Andhika Padmawan (id), Terje Uriansrud (nb_NO) Gökmen Görgen (tr).

## Utilities *(xfce-utils)*

- Migrate xfce4-session splash settings to xfconf.
- Be sure $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/autostart exists when creating .desktop file to disable xfconf migration script.
- Migrate xfwm4 keyboard shortcuts to new xfconf format.

## Application Finder *(xfce4-appfinder)*

- Fix runtime warnings and toplevel menu items always being displayed on top of every category.
- Translation updates: Carles Munõz Gorriz (ca), Abel Martín (es), Maximilian Schleiss (fr), Andhika Padmawan (id), Terje Uriansrud (nb_NO)
