---
title: "Xfce 4.6.1 Changelog"
version: "4.6.1"
group: "4.6"
weight: 30
hasToc: true
---

## Utility Library *(libxfce4util)*

- Updated translations: Japanese, Spanish, Galician, Slovenian, Polish, Romanian.

## Widget Library *(libxfcegui4)*

- Updated translations: Polish, Japanese, Galician, Portuguese, Norwegian, Spanish.

## Extension Library *(exo)*

- Quote arguments passed to exo-open (bug #5132).
- Add gettext() call around two strings which are already as translatable with N_() (bug #5203).
- Fix broken build due to incomplete integration of the Danish and Galician manual translations.

## Menu Library *(libxfce4menu)*

- Remove gtk+-2.0 from the dependency field of pkg-config file. Add glib-2.0 and gthread-2.0 instead.
- Update translations: Spanish, Italian, Japanese, Galician

## Window Manager *(xfwm4)*

- Reduce repaint timeout in the compositor (bug #5080)
- Fix applications getting focused when focus on map is unset even without focus stealing prevention enabled (bug #5044)
- Reduce minimum timeout for focus delay in focus follow mouse (100ms was way too much)
- Fix raise delay settings in xfwm4 dialog being totally ignored
- Avoid unecessary warnings about timestamps at startup
- Fix a long standing bug in xfwm4 4.6 were activating a transient would not regrab the mouse on parent window.
- Do not go over adjacent windows with fill (bug #5152)
- Do not actually change window layer when status is above, below or fullscreen (bug #5030)
- Check fullscreen status against each monitor and not just the overall screen size in the compositor.
- Fix remaining active grab if shortcut is not used (bug #5207)
- Plug various memory leaks
- Updated translations: Polish, Swedish, Brazilian Portuguese, English (GB), Spanish, Czech, Turkish.

## Desktop Manager *(xfdesktop)*

- Fix desktop menu failing to load on FreeBSD (bug #3370).
- Ensure root window properties get deleted when xfdesktop quits (bug #5154).
- Reload the backdrop and icon view when 'xfdesktop --reload' is run (bug #5156).
- Make default button in 'delete multiple' dialog consistent with default in 'delete single' dialog (bug #5140).
- Reload the desktop when the first image is added to an image list (bug #5001).
- Auto-select new images as they are added to the settings dialog's image list (bug #5014).

## Panel *(xfce4-panel)*

- Migrate launcher category icons from 4.4 panels (bug #5067).
- Fix compilation with -Wl,--as-needed (bug #5103).
- Don't crash when the quit action button is pressed (bug #5118).
- Properly set the systray orientation property (bug #5149).
- Fix xfce-hvbox not working with gtk 2.16 (bug #5166).
- Don't crash the launcher plugin when the launcher entry list is empty.
- Add icon-name fallback to the show desktop plugin (bug #5117).
- Disconnect the icon theme changed signal from a launcher when it is destroyed to avoid crash when the icon theme changes.
- Fix drawing dots mode of the seperator plugin in a vertical panel (bug #5162).
- Fix a possible crash when setting the session restart style on an uninitialized client session.
- A whole bunch of translation updated (Polish, Spanish, Portuguese, Japanese, Galician, Norwegian).

## Session Manager *(xfce4-session)*

- Fix crash in settings dialog when a .desktop file with a missing Application key is opened (bug #5020).
- Ensure networked session handling over TCP is disabled by default (bug #5126).

## Settings Manager *(xfce4-settings)*

- Use the folder name for selecting the icon- and style-theme in the appearance dialog (bug #4997).
- Make sure inputproto 1.4.2 is available before enabling device hotplugging in the code (bug #5084).
- Remove unsigned clamp macro that broke applying the display settings and select the correct refresh rate (bug #4966).
- Make sure that the same .desktop file does not appear in the settings-manager more then once if it occurs in different locations in XDG_DATA_DIRS (bug #5159)

## Configuration Manager *(xfconf)*

- Be a bit safer when writing out channel xml files: flush data to disk using fdatasync()/fsync() before renaming over the old file.
- Updated translations: pl, es, it, gl, pl, pt, uk

## File Manager *(thunar)*

- Put quotes around filenames in thunar-wallpaper-plugin (bug #5056)
- Apply umask properly when creating files/directories. Patch by Giovanni Bechis (bug #3532).

## Mixer *(xfce4-mixer)*

- Make <Control>q and <Control>s trigger the corresponding actions.
- Minor cosmetic fixes (row spacing of 6px in tables).
- Add missing AudioVideo category which is obligatory if you use the Audio category (bug #4933).
- Display mute/record state properly on startup (bug #5002).
- Fix segfault when destroying the plugin
- Move capture track check into xfce_mixer_track_update_record().
- Don't increment the reference count on GObjects when passing them to GValue using g_value_set_object().
- Fix crash with backends where the GstMixer implementation has no "device-name" property (bug #5201).
- Include libxfcegui4.h to avoid implicit declaration of xfce_err().
- Translation updates: Spanish, Polish, Galician, Portuguese, Italian

## Utilities *(xfce-utils)*

- Reset icon theme name if the migrated icon theme name (possibly 'Rodent') doesn't exist anymore.
- Remove a bash-ishm ('source') from xinitrc.

## Application Finder *(xfce4-appfinder)*

- Translation updates: Polish, Spanish, Portuguese
