---
title: "Xfce 4.6.0 Changelog"
version: "4.6.0"
group: "4.6"
weight: 30
hasToc: true
---

## Utility Library *(libxfce4util)*

- Updated translations: Finnish, Brazilian Portuguese, Catalan, French, Ukrainian, Polish, Indonesian, English (GB), Norwegian, Simplified Chinese and Turkish.
- Add missing C++ wrappers in header files (patch by Jens Luedicke).

## Widget Library *(libxfcegui4)*

- Fix translations of libxfce4kbd-private not being used (bug #4784).
- Fix library ageing (bug #4864).
- Add default "xrandr --auto" for XF86Display so that monitor switching works with recent Xorg.
- Fix transient mode of XfceShortcutDialog.
- Add separate library version for libxfce4kbd-private.
- Add missing C++ wrappers in header files (bug #4941).
- Updated translations: Finnish, Catalan, French, Ukrainian, Turkish, English (GB), Spanish, German, Indonesian, Japanese, Norwegian Bokmal, Polish, Simplified Chinese, Hungarian.

## Extension Library *(exo)*

- Updated translations: French, Turkish, English (GB), Polish, Romanian, Greek and Spanish.

## Menu Library *(libxfce4menu)*

- Add hint about no invariant sections to COPYING.
- Fix crash when reading invalid menu files (bug #4879).
- Monitor the directories of .menu files and all directory dirs. Otherwise the menu is not regenerated when they are altered.
- Fix a massive memory leak. (bug #3812).
- Updated translations: German, Indonesian, Polish, English (GB), Turkish, Ukrainian, Finnish.

## Window Manager *(xfwm4)*

- Fix possible monitor cache size inconsistency when the screen size changes.
- Fix fill function not working with multiscreen.
- Fix size not properly computed by the fill function with a dock on top or left (bug #4960).
- Only display the shortcut conflict dialog if the conflict is with a different shortcut than the one being edited.
- When stealing a shortcut from another shortcuts provider, clear the shortcut of that provider first.
- Fix focus stealing prevention with applications which support the NET_WM_USER_TIME_WINDOW protocol.
- Do not automatically give focus to windows placed on lower layers, but focus those on upper layers at first map.
- Fix compilation failure in debug full without render.
- Fix ICCCM synthetic unmap notify handling causing a race condition with amule when started hidden to system tray (bug #4928).
- Fix margin maximum value (bug #4931).
- Apply font settings changes in real time (DPI, hinting, hint style, RGBA).
- Fix key "Super" remaining sticky when used as a modifier shortcut (bug #4959).
- Updated translations: Polish, Swedish, Brazilian Portuguese, English (GB), Spanish, Czech, Turkish.

## Desktop Manager *(xfdesktop)*

- Fix menu plugin crash when selecting custom menu file (bug #4879).
- Do not mark Gtk stock identifiers as translatable. Patch from Stefan Stuhr (bug #4721).
- Update Desktop files to contain icon-naming-spec compliant icon names and use 'exo-open' to start the Web browser and terminal emulator.
- Only regenerate the monitor on file changes we care about (bug #4979).
- Updated translations: Danish, Turkish, German, Polish, Simplified Chinese, English (GB), Japanese, French.

## Panel *(xfce4-panel)*

- Block the panel autohide if the widget is grabbed (bug #4597).
- Fix dragging to the submenu items of a launcher (bug #4026).
- Send the event time with startup notification instead of zero, so that focus stealing works properly.
- Set the foreground color of the lcd clock (bug #4923).
- Don't escape the command when dropping a Desktop file in the launcher dialog (bug #4818).
- Updated translations: Turkish, French, Indonesian, Norwegian, Polish, Simplified Chinese, English (GB), Catalan, Ukrainian.

## Session Manager *(xfce4-session)*

- Respect the ICEAUTHORITY environment variable (bug #4369).
- Fix the sudo shutdown helper for systems without HAL (bug #4849).
- Avoid a spurious error dialog when using the sudo shutdown helper to shut down the system (bug #4849).
- Fix crash in autostart editor when adding a new application (bug #4934).
- Updated translations: Turkish, Indonesian, Greek, Hungarian, Brazilian, Russian, Polish, Basque, Ukrainian.

## Settings Manager *(xfce4-settings)*

- Make the Xrandr dependency optional. If Xrandr is disabled, the display plugin will not be compiled at all (bug #4836).
- When stealing a shortcut from another shortcuts provider, clear the shortcut of that provider first.
- Make embedded settings dialogs optional (and disabled by default). They can be turned on using --enable-pluggable-dialogs.
- Remove bold markup from the shortcut reset dialog text (bug #4785).
- Don't mark GTK+ stock labels as translatable.
- Add Gtk/IMModule XSETTINGS key (bug #4961).
- Fix DPI calculation when DPI settings are set to '-1', (eg default) since we can not depend on pango, cairo or fontconfig to do the right thing.
- Fix typing error in the ToolbarStyle default XSETTINGS registry value.
- Do not fill the xsettings channel from the settings-dialog, xfsettingsd takes care of this.
- Updated translations: Danish, Swedish, Japanese, Norwegian, Simplified Chinese, Turkish, Catalan, Ukrainian, Czech.

## Configuration Manager *(xfconf)*

- Fix a segfault of xfconfd at startup on amd64 (bug #4881).
- Code cleanup in g_critical assertion.
- Remove unimplemented --import and --export functions from xfconf-query.
- Fix encoding bug with xfconf-query input (bug #4622).
- Updated translations: Danish, French, Indonesian, Norwegian, Simplified Chinese, Swedish, Brazilian Portuguese, Spanish, Turkish, Basque, Czech.

## File Manager *(thunar)*

- Fix crash when entering the same hidden directory twice in the location entry (bug #4847).
- Pass the current event time to startup notification, so focus stealing works properly.
- Fix the Thunar font thumbnailer (bug #4821).
- Do not use msgctxt as it is not supported and breaks in older gettext.
- Updated translations: Danish, Turkish, French, Polish, English (GB).

## Mixer *(xfce4-mixer)*

- Add missing AudioVideo category which is obligatory if you use the Audio category (bug #4933).
- Fix toggling capture (bug #4777).
- Make Control + q and Control + s keybindings work.
- A few cosmetic improvements.
- Updated translations: Swedish, German, Indonesian, Norwegian, Polish, Spanish, Turkish, Ukrainian.

## Utilities *(xfce-utils)*

- Fix sysconfdir and datadir not being expanded properly in xinitrc (bug #4924).
- Export GTK_PATH variable in xinitrc so that GTK+ has a chance to find the Xfce theme engine even in a custom prefix (bug #4925).
- Fix typo in the Copyright entry patch by Enrico Troeger (bug #3993).
- Ensure that xfrun dialog text is selected when the dialog is reshown via the dbus interface (bug #2836).
- Updated translations: German, Japanese, Polish, Turkish.

## Application Finder *(xfce4-appfinder)*

- Try to load items from xfce-applications.menu before trying applications.menu in order to provide the same items as Xfdesktop does (reported by Mark Trompell).
- Updated translations: Indonesian, Polish, English (GB), Turkish, Ukrainian.
