---
title: "Xfce 4.8pre2 Changelog"
version: "4.8pre2"
group: "4.8"
weight: 40
hasToc: true
---

## Extension Library *(exo)*

- Fix opening of URIs with spaces in claws-mail and sylpheed.
- Fix two @libexecdir@ -> @HELPERDIR@ replacements.
- Add Icedove helper.
- Fix Opera helper with Opera newer as 10.60.
- Add mime types to the exo-open desktop files (bug #6800).
- Store preferred application in mimeapps.list (bug #6800).
- Don't build the GIO module after glib 2.27 (bug #6800).
- Make exo-open more standalone (bug #6573).
- Translation updates (ug, gl, zh_TW, ru, sk, ja, el, sv, es, eu, hu, pt, kk, it, ja, he, uk, ca, da, id).

## Widget Library *(libxfce4ui)*

- Also request an interact for save-state-extended.
- Return a NULL state file is the sm-client is disabled.
- Fix the save-state signal.
- Translation updates (pt).

## Utility Library *(libxfce4util)*

- Fix wrong capitalization of Xfce.
- Fix stdarg.h include (bug #6897).
- Translation updates (pt).

## File Manager *(thunar)*

- Make .desktop entries installed by Thunar validate against desktop-file-utils 0.16 (bug #6655). Patch by Samuli Suominen.
- Fix missing instruction to load the sendto model (bug #6762).
- Fix the sample D-Bus client for the org.xfce.FileManager interface.
- Fix home folder being displayed as "Desktop" if $HOME is set to /home/username/Desktop.
- Fix outdated Thunar D-Bus API usage in the trash panel applet.
- Create user dirs instead of showing an error if they don't exist.
- Allow scrolling in the 'Open With' combo box of the file properties dialog (bug #3055).
- Expand filenames starting with './' based on the current working directory instead of home (bug #3451).
- Print an error if thunar-settings fails to contact the file manager service (bug #6547).
- Permanently delete files if at least one of them cannot be trashed (bug #6748).
- Fix a typo in configure.in.in (bug #6724).
- Include panel macro header (bug #6680).
- Use GTK_STOCK_FILE as the fallback icon for files (bug #6662).
- Fix compiler warnings about shadowed variables.
- Use Name field as display name of desktop entries (bug #6860).
- Fix a memory leak in thunar_transfer_job_execute().
- Fix a segmentation fault when reloading files.
- Avoid GIO 2.20 function calls.
- Properly avoid launching the file manager recursively by checking the GAppInfo id/name.
- Translation updates: Hungarian, German, Slovak, Portuguese (Brazilian), Chinese (China), Greek, Catalan (Valencian), Italian, Basque, Spanish (Castilian), Kazakh, Portuguese, Hebrew, Galician, Indonesian, Chinese (Taiwan), Japanese, Finish.

## Utilities *(xfce-utils)*

- Return support for vendor information.
- Hookup the help button in xfce4-about.
- Fix typo in xfce4-about --help.
- Fix some wrong capitalizations of Xfce.
- Set XDG_MENU_PREFIX to "xfce-" and export it (bug #5980).
- Translation updates (id, zh_TW, kk, it, fi, gl, da, ca, pt, uk, eu, sk, de, hu).

## Panel *(xfce4-panel)*

- Don't destroy the about dialog.
- Allow using enter in the launcher treeviews.
- Fix crash in always group mode (bug #6792).
- Drop the automatic grouping option from tasklist; not implemented yet.
- Fix Gdk key macro names.
- Fix confustion with panel opacity (bug #6827).
- Make miniature view the default in the pager (bug #6825).
- Fix wrong capitalization of Xfce.
- Fix issue in systray size allocation with 1 row (bug #6809).
- Fix 'add launcher' desktop file.
- Improve debugging output for display changes.
- Restore shadow of spin button in systray dialog.
- Add function to return the Xfconf panel name.
- Warning why # pager rows does not apply (bug #6555).
- Gracefully handle abort signal (bug #6563).
- Restart the panel if we receive SIGUSR1.
- Fix format of 12-hour clock.
- Add option to not rotate buttons in vertical panel (bug #6687).
- Propertly handle insensitive clock colors.
- Set correct session priority.
- Improve support for a menu editor (alacarte) in the applications menu.
- Don't destroy the application menu under the users' cursor on reload.
- Add window DND to the pager in tasklist.
- Make viewports work in the tasklist (bug #6898 and bug #6665).
- Support viewports in button pager.
- Always use applications menu for default menu.
- Fix Exec key in desktop file handler (bug #6912).
- Fix if statement in xfce_tasklist_button_visible().
- Depend on garcon 0.1.4.
- Translation updates (be, ca, da, de, eu, fi, gl, hu, id, it, ja, kk, nl, pt, sk, ta, uk, zh_CN, zh_TW).

## Session Manager *(xfce4-session)*

- Do not try "unix-session" authorization with PolicyKit as this seems to be either broken or not implemented in PolicyKit (bug #6817). This fixes suspend/hibernate in xfce4-session-logout.
- Fix possibly shadowed variables.
- Fix compilation on FreeBSD with polkit (bug #6870).
- Restore splash screen functionality (bug #6831).
- Fix logout with sudo.
- Translation updates (de, pt_BR, zh_CN, el, uk, it, id, ja, kk, pt).

## Settings Manager *(xfce4-settings)*

- Use xfconf_channel_get instead of xfconf_channel_new.
- Don't activate numlock on first launch.
- Fix wrong capitalizations of Xfce.
- Fix compiler warnings.
- Drop Xfce from the settings manager .desktop name.
- Fix free of invalid memory (bug #6909).
- Add checks for API change in libnotify 0.7.0.
- Translations updates (hu, zh_CN, he, pt, gl).

## Configuration Manager *(xfconf)*

- Don't enable options with --disable-$option (bug #6820).
- Use G_GSIZE_FORMAT in the DBG message.
- Add doc module to fixxref options (bug #6304).
- Link the gtkdoc scanner to GObject and Glib (bug #6407).
- Check for perl outside bindings option for alias script (bug #6481).
- Move xfconfd from $libexecdir to $libdir.
- Updated translations: kk, bn, uk, si, it, sk, fr, id, zh_TW, de, pt, ug.

## Desktop Manager *(xfdesktop)*

- Fix a crash caused by accessing the wrong variable when adding items to the right-click menu.
- Select the correct icon style in the desktop settings on first start (bug #6798).
- Depend on libwnck newer as 2.22 so we no longer have to implement hacks for the two different "active-workspace-changed" signal variants in libwnck (bug #6638).
- Add menu item monitoring.
- Fix critical when session manager is not running (bug #6822).
- Remove checks for older GLib/GTK+ versions that are no longer needed.
- Allow workspace names that start with a number (bug #6318).
- Delay notification initialization until we show one.
- Set the correct session priority.
- Do not call gtk_widget_show() on menus (bug #6198).
- Add checks for an API change in libnotify 0.7.0 (bug #6915).
- Avoid GTK+ 2.18 and GIO 2.20 function calls (or at least guard them so that xfdesktop still builds with older versions).
- Let garcon choose the default applications menu file using XDG_MENU_PREFIX. Drop the UserMenu kiosk option as the panel sort of allows to bypass it anyway.
- Translation updates: gl, ca, de, it, kk, fi, sk, pt, uk, el, zh_TW, da, id, eu, hu, lt.

## Window Manager *(xfwm4)*

- Fix break with latest API changes in libxfce4ui.
- Fix corrupted button layouts by obtaining the button IDs correctly (bug #6824).
- Bump the GTK+ dependency to 2.14 which is the minimum version required for Xfce 4.8.
- Properly implement session handling (bug #6330).
- Make the settings dialog smaller so it fits on netbooks screens.
- Depend on libxfce4ui 4.7.5 for crucial fix in the save-state-extended signal.
- Panel won't focus entries in focus follow mode (bug #6649).
- Adjusted sizes when a maximized window is undecorated (bug #6543).
- Unshade windows when given focus with Alt-Tab (bug #5931).
- Fix hang when closing a submenu (bug #6562).
- New theme for 4.8.
- Focus-follows-mouse activate/raise should not do focus (bug #4679).
- Translation updates (zh_TW, ug, it, gl, ja, sv, pt, pt_BR, da, de, kk, hu, zh_CN).
